For the purpose of security,
it's great to install a web server in a private subnet without inbound Internet Axis.
But the question is, how do we log into it to
troubleshoot issues when they arise? Let's take a look.
Chances are you already know what SSH is,
but if not, it stands for Secure Shell,.
It's an encrypted channel of communication between your work PC or
your laptop to another computer or server across a network.
What's really important to us is that it is passwordless,
meaning that all you need is your username,
and a private encryption key,
and you're ready to connect.
We're going to start with this diagram.
The first thing we're going to do is create the Jump Box,
also known as a bastion host which is simply
a server that we're going to use as a jumping point to be
able to access those servers in
the private subnets that don't have a public IP address that we can reach.
I realized that there are several ways around this problem,
but this way that I'm about to show you,
it's secure, and it's simple.
So let's go to our AWS Console and get started.
We'll start by creating a couple of SSH keys that we can use.
Here we are in the AWS Console,
so I'll select EC2,
and I want you to scroll down to where it says, "Key pairs."
Click on that, and then we're going to go ahead and create a couple of key pairs.
I'll give it a name, I'll call it jumpbox-key.
I'll use pem, and click "Create".
Keep in mind, you just download it.
This file, that.pem file,
and that's the private key.
This is the only time that you have to download this key.
If you ever lose this file,
you'll have to recreate a brand new key. Let's do another one.
Private-server-devops-key, again, same format,
pem, and click "Create."
We just downloaded that as well.
Keep in mind that these files and this SSH keys are region-specific.
For example, in this demo,
I have selected the Ohio region,
so I can only use it here which is where
these public keys are defined on the Amazon side.
I'll go back to the EC2 dashboard and select "Running instances".
Right now we don't have anything,
so let's go ahead and launch our Jump Box.
I'll select "Amazon Linux" here T2.micro is fine,
and now let's choose our vpc.
We're going to pick a Public subnets within that vpc,
because this is our Jump Box.
Make sure this is enable, Auto-assign Public IP.
You're going to need a public IP so that you can access this server.
So Auto-assign Enable, make sure you get that IP from the beginning.
Storage, eight gigabytes is fine.
For tags. I'll add a tag called Name,
and call it Jump Box.
For the Security Group, we're going to create a brand new one,
call it jump-box-security-group, and we're going to allow SSH into it.
We're going to choose our own IP address,
which you can do it from here.
Put a Description here, call it Administrator access,
click "Review and Launch".
Now when we Launch,
let's make sure we're selecting jumpbox-key, and acknowledge.
Now we wait for our server to spin up.
While we wait for our server to come online,
let me show you the software.
So in order to SSH using the PEM or private key file that we just downloaded from AWS,
you're going to need to be able to SSH,
and you're going to need SEP,
which stands for secure copy,
which is a copy command over shell.
Now if you're using Windows,
you may not have these commands available to you.
Let me show you how to get them.
Back here in the web browser,
I have another tab here and it says commander.net,
cmder.net, which is a console emulator that I use.
This will simulate a Linux-like console that you can use on their Windows.
If you're using Linux or macOS,
you have no problems because you already have access to
the SSH and SEP command from your terminal.
Let's go back to AWS.
As you can see, our Jump Box is running.
So we'll come down here where it says IPv4 Public IP,
and click on "Copy to clipboard".
Let's try to SSH to it to make sure it's working properly.
So here in our terminal, we'll type SSH,
ec2-user which is the default user in this machine,
and paste the IP that we grabbed from the console,
-i for identity and provide the identity.
In this case, the jumpbox-key file that we created oi the AWS side,
I'll hit "Enter" here.
It wants to add this connection,
because it has never seen this before,
so I'll say, "Yes."
Here we are, we're officially connected to our Amazon machine that we just created.
Now that our Jump Box is ready,
tested and restricted only to our own IP address,
we should be able to reach our private servers from there,
simply because they're in the same internal network as our Jump Box.
We just need one more step.
Since we are connecting from the Jump Box,
we need to copy the SSH key that we use to spin up our private servers into our Jump Box,
so let's do that now.
So we just logged out of our server.
So we're going to go back in,
but we're going to go back in with a copy command this time because we need to transfer
our private key so that we can use it to SSH from the Jump Box into our private servers.
So let's do that right now.
Secure copy, the file name.
Before I do that, actually I need to specify the identity which is jumpbox-key,
and now I'll specify the file name.
Now we need to specify where to transfer this file to,
which is ec2-user@3.17.80.159,
and the path is going to be home/ec2-user/.
It will give me the same file name,
and we'll execute this command,
and the files have been copied over.
Let's log in to our server to verify.
I'll clear the screen, ls, and there's the file.
Now we need the IP addresses of the server to make sure that we can SSH into them.
Let's go back to our console and verify.
Here we have our servers,
I'm going to rename this for clarity so that you can see.
We'll call this Private #1,
we'll call this one Private #2.
As you can see, these servers,
they don't have an IP before public address,
so we need to use the internal IP address.
In this case, let's try Private #2 which has this IP address of 10.0.1.73.
I'll copy the valuem and I'll come back to the console.
I will do SSH,
use the private key,
and then ec2-user@, and I'll paste the address.
Let's see if this works.
As you can see, we get an error message.
It requires a specific permission for our key file before we can use it.
So let's change that.
I'll do chmod 400, this is a private key.
This should solve the problem,
and let's try the command again.
I'll SSH again to the same IP address,
and now we're able to log in.
Let's try that with the other server to make sure it works.
I'll go back to the console,
select Private #1, and copy over the IP address.
Again, I'll SSH.
Actually I'll just edit this command and remove the IP address,
and add the new one here, and hit "Enter".
There you are. You're able to connect to this servers that don't have
a public-facing IP address through the use of a Jump Box.
Here's some best practices to remember related to what we're doing here.
Be sure to restrict the access to Jump Box
only to those IP addresses that need access to it.
Better yet, turn off your Jump Box when you're not using it for even greater security.
Don't create SSH keys with your name,
as they may be shared across a team.
It's better to name them after their specific use.
Finally, remember that a malicious attack could come from the internal network.
So apply Security Groups to
your private servers in the same way as if they were public servers.